Weekplan screen (#54)
aau-giraf/wiki: file_documentation/weekplanner/screens/weekplan_screen.md

# weekplan_screen.dart

> This file documents the weekplan_screen.dart file in the weekplanner project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file documents the `weekplan_screen.dart` file in the Weekplanner project.
```

## Functionality

> The screen is the one responsible for showing all the days of the week. Each day in the weekplan_screen is displayed with all the planned activities for that single day. The colors of the days are a standard to help autistic children. From the Weekplan screen different functionality can be accessed:

Reviewer: > The colors of the days are a standard

Which standard?

Removed passive voice

```suggestion
The screen is the one responsible for showing all the days of the week. The `weekplan_screen` displays each day with all its planned activities. The colors of the days are a standard to help autistic children. From the Weekplan screen different functionality can be accessed:
```

Author: Neither the product owner group or I have been able to find a name for the coloring standard in our notes or on the internet.

> * Adding activies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adding activities
```

* Accessing an activity

> * Move mctivities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Moving activities
```

> The weekplan screen also uses the giraf_appbar which also adds functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `weekplan_screen` also uses the `giraf_appbar` which also adds some functionality.
```

## Layout 

> The weekplan screen is displayed as seen here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `weekplan_screen` is displayed as seen here:

```

> ![Layout of screen](../pictures/weekPlannerScreen.PNG) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Layout of the screen](../pictures/weekPlannerScreen.PNG)

```

> The activity on Thursday is an activty marked as done, whereas the one on Wednesday is not done yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The activity on Thursday is an activity marked as done, whereas the one on Wednesday is not marked as done yet.
```

## Buttons

> The buttons used in the weekplan screen are the addactivity buttons. One button is placed at the bottom of each day. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buttons seen at the bottom of the `weekplan_screen` screen are the _add activity_ buttons. Tapping an _add activity_ button opens a new screen, namely the `pictogram_search_screen`, which the user can search for a pictogram to add to that day. 
```

> Tapping an addactivity button opens a new screen the pictogram_search_screen in which the user can search for a pictogram to add to that day. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Code

> The weekplan_screen is a widget, thus it have to implement the build function, as seen here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `weekplan_screen` is a widget must, therefore, implement the build method, as seen here:

```

    return StreamBuilder<WeekplanMode>(
        stream: authBloc.mode,
        builder: (BuildContext context,
            AsyncSnapshot<WeekplanMode> weekModeSnapshot) {
          return Scaffold(
            appBar: GirafAppBar(
                title: 'Ugeplan',
                appBarIcons: (weekModeSnapshot.data == WeekplanMode.guardian)
                    ? <AppBarIcon>[
                        AppBarIcon.changeToCitizen,
                        AppBarIcon.settings,
                        AppBarIcon.logout,
                      ]
                    : <AppBarIcon>[AppBarIcon.changeToGuardian]),
            body: StreamBuilder<UserWeekModel>(
              stream: weekplanBloc.userWeek,
              initialData: null,
              builder: (BuildContext context,
                  AsyncSnapshot<UserWeekModel> snapshot) {
                if (snapshot.hasData) {
                  return _buildWeeks(snapshot.data.week, context);
                } else {
                  return const Center(
                    child: CircularProgressIndicator(),
                  );
                }
              },
            ),
          );
        });
  }
```

> The build method returns a streambuilder which uses the authBloc.mode. authBloc.mode tells whether a guardian or citizen uses the app. The layout of the screen is dependant on this. Inside the Scaffold another streambuilder is used, the stream is set to weekplanBloc.userWeek. The stream emits the userweek to be shown. If there is data in the stream *_buildweeks* is called. Otherwise a CircularProgressIndicator is shown. 

Reviewer: This paragraph is very confusing and unstructured and should be rewritten.

```suggestion

The build method returns a `StreamBuilder` which uses the `AuthBloc`'s `mode` stream. The `AuthBloc`'s `mode` stream tells whether a guardian or citizen uses the app. The layout of the screen is dependant on this. The `StreamBuilder` inside the `Scaffold` uses the stream of `WeekplanBloc.userWeek`. This stream emits the active `UserWeek`. We call *_buildWeeks* if there is data in the stream, and a `CircularProgressIndicator` is shown otherwise.
```

> The *_buildweeks* method is one of multiple help functions to build the layout. *_buildweek* creates all the different days of the week, it does so by returning a Row for each day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *_buildWeeks* method is one of the multiple help functions used to build the layout. *_buildWeek* creates all the different days of the week. The *_buildWeek* method does so by returning a `Row` for each day.
```

> The *_day* function returns a Column with a ListView in it. The ListView contains all the activities for a day. Besides this, the *_day* function also calls *_dragTargetPlaceholder()* to display grey placeholders, when an activity is to be moved. The *_day* function also builds the addactivity buttons in the bottom of each day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *_day* function returns a `Column` with a `ListView` in it. The `ListView` contains all the activities for a day. The *_day* function also calls *_dragTargetPlaceholder()* to display grey placeholders, when an activity is to be moved. The *_day* function also builds the `addActivity` buttons in the bottom of each day.
```

The *_pictogramIconStack* is used to add the accept icon once an activity is done as seen on Thursday in the layout section.

Two functions allow for the moving of images, *_dragTargetPlaceholder* and *_dragTargetPictogram*

The *_getPictograms* is used to load the image of a specific image id.

> The *_translateWeekDay* is used to translate an enum type to a textstring. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *_translateWeekDay* is used to translate an enum type to a text string. 
```
